# ManageBugsFree
## Bug Tracking Application

ManageBugsFree is a simple bug tracking application written in Java. It was meant to be an application that businesses would set up internally to track and manage bugs. It loosely follows an MVC architectural pattern, with JavaServer Faces (JSF) pages serving as the view, CDI Managed Beans and the Faces Servlet as the controller, and Enterprise Java Beans (EJBs) and Entities as the model. The view also uses the PrimeFaces and OmniFaces JSF component libraries in some instances.

This project uses Auth0 for Authorization and Authentication, based on the Auth0 Java EE SDK Quickstart example (https://auth0.com/docs/quickstart/webapp/java-ee/01-login). The com.munderhill.security.auth0javaeesample package consists of classes that perform the steps that prepare for authentication by creating an Auth0 authorization URL where users log in (Auth0AuthenticationConfig, Auth0AuthenticationProvider, Auth0JwtCredential, Auth0JwtIdentityStore, Auth0JwtPrincipal and LoginServlet) and classes that create a JSON Web Token (JWT) once Auth0 sends back an authorization code upon successful authentication (Auth0 issues an Http Request to the CallbackServlet class which redirects to the Home.xhtml web page, and the Auth0AuthenticationMechanism processes the authorization code and creates the token once an Http Request to the CallbackServlet is made). If the user has a valid com.auth0.state cookie or if they entered the correct username/password, then their HttpSession is given an accessToken, idToken and User attribute which permits them to enter the application. The com.munderhill.authenticationfilter AuthenticationFilter class applies a filter to all .xhtml pages (JSF) and only permits access if the user is deemed active based on the HttpSession accessToken, idToken and User attributes. If the user is not deemed active, the user is redirected to the login page that is created by the LoginServlet. The Logout link in the top right corner of the application provides access to the com.munderhill.security.auth0javaeesample LogoutServlet classs, which invalidates the HttpSession and send the user back to the login page.

Originally, this project ran my local machine, but the latest commit includes changes to the web.xml, persistence.xml and "test" folder that allows for this project to be deployed to a container and run on the internet. I omitted IP addresses, usernames/passwords and Auth0 environment settings from the web.xml and persistence.xml files for security.

Jelastic was used to host this application in the cloud on a Glassfish 5.1 server with a Postgres 12.0 database. This application could also be deployed in a docker container onto AWS or Azure if you can find a good Glassfish 5.1 image and configure it correctly to run. I found Jelastic to be easier, as it allowed for easier container configuration, although I am new to docker, so a more experienced user may find it easier to work with docker directly.

You can access this application by visiting www.managebugsfree-app.website and providing a valid username and password. I only provide the usernames and passwords to individuals directly.
